kopilot v0.1 released 2014-02-09
Copyright 2014 by Marc Chevrette under the GNU GPLv2
Direct questions and bug reports to:
	chevrm at gmail dot com

README last updated 2014-02-09

Summary:
	kopilot is a suite of scripts meant to make output from the KOBAS
	pathway annotation pipeline human readable and easily imported into
	statistical software, such as R.  It also allows for quick subsetting
	of reads.

Installation:

Dependancies (installed by install-mm if necessary)
	- bioperl

Programs and databases mentioned that are not directly a part of kopilot
	- ncbi-blast
	- KOBAS
	- KEGG
	- R

Optional:

Example workflow from raw fastq:
	> fq2fa example.fastq > example.fna
	> fanameshorten example.fna r
	> blastx -query example.renamed.fa -db ko.pep.db -out 
	  bx.ko.example.fa -evalue 1e-5 -num_threads 8 -culling_limit
	  10 -outfmt 6
	# Upload bx.ko.example.fa to the KOBAS annotate webserver
	  http://kobas.cbi.pku.edu.cn/program.inputForm.do?program=Annotate
	# Download KOBAS results, here example.annotate
	> kocount example.annotate > example.kc.tab
	> kopilot r example.annotate > example.kp.tab

Suite:
	- fq2fa
		Simple fastq to fasta converter.
		usage:
		fq2fa input.fastq > new.fasta
	
	- fanameshorten
		Renames fasta to indexed reads in order to keep file sizes
		under the limit of the KOBAS webserver.
		usage:
		fanameshorten example.fna prefix

	- kombiner
		For the combination of multiple KOABS annotate files into
		one.  This is a useful preprocessing step for other 
		kopilot scripts if, for example, you have split up your
		KO blast queries into multiple files.
		usage:  
		kombiner 1.annotate 2.annotate 3.annotate > combo.annotate

	- kocount
		Produces tab table of pure KO-hit counts from KOBAS
		annotate.  Can take many annotate files.
		usage:
		kocount readprefix 1.annotate 2.annotate > out.kc.tab

	- kopilot
		Produces tab table of categorized KO-hits from KOBAS
		annotate.
		usage:
		kopilot readprefix kobas.annotate > out.kp.tab

Test:

Citations:
	Kanehisa, M., & Goto, S. (2000). KEGG: kyoto encyclopedia of 
	genes and genomes. Nucleic Acids Research, 28(1), 27–30. 

	Xie, C., Mao, X., Huang, J., Ding, Y., Wu, J., Dong, S., … Wei, L. 
	(2011). KOBAS 2.0: a web server for annotation and identification 
	of enriched pathways and diseases. Nucleic Acids Research, 
	39(Web Server issue), W316–22. 
